README.md, before:

# 🚀 01_START_HERE_IMPLEMENTATION.md - SCL-Institute Rebuild

**Project Name:** SCL-Institute (SCLI)
**Status:** 🚀 REBOOTED (Phase 1 Start)
**Date:** January 24, 2026

---

## 🏛️ Executive Summary

We are rebuilding the system from the ground up as **"SCL-Institute"**. The goal is to provide a clean, "from scratch" implementation that retains the premium **SCL Look & Feel** but simplifies the architecture into a streamlined user flow.

**The Vision:**
1.  **Unified Entry Point:** A beautiful Login Module.
2.  **Central Dashboard:** A "Card" based interface after login.
3.  **LMS Integration:** A dedicated card that seamless logs the user into a **fresh Moodle instance**.

---

## 🏗️ Architecture Design

We are adopting a strict "Clean Slate" approach. We will not link to the old SCL database or old Moodle data.

### 1. Technology Stack
*   **Frontend:** React 18 + Vite + Tailwind CSS (Preserving "SCL Purple" Aesthetic).
*   **Backend:** Node.js + Express (Authentication & User Management).
*   **Database:** MySQL 8.0 (Users, Tokens, App Data).
*   **LMS:** Moodle 4.x (Fresh Docker Install).
*   **Containerization:** Docker Compose (Orchestrating all 4 services).

### 2. User Flow
1.  **User Visits:** `https://scl-institute.com` (Frontend)
2.  **Action:** LOGS IN via SCL-Institute Login Page.
3.  **System:** Authenticates user via Node.js Backend.
4.  **Landing:** User lands on **SCL-Institute Dashboard**.
    *   *Visual:* Grid of Cards (e.g., "LMS", "Profile", "Settings").
5.  **Action:** User clicks "LMS" Card.
6.  **System:**
    *   Frontend requests SSO Token from Backend.
    *   Backend talks to Moodle (Fresh Instance).
    *   Moodle validates and logs user in.
    *   User is redirected to Moodle Dashboard without 2nd login.

---

## 📋 System Requirements (From Scratch)

### A. Environment
*   **Hypervisor:** Docker Desktop (Windows).
*   **Services:**
    1.  `scli-frontend` (React)
    2.  `scli-backend` (Node API)
    3.  `scli-mysql` (Database)
    4.  `scli-moodle` (LMS - Fresh Install)
    5.  `scli-phpmyadmin` (DB Management)

### B. Functional Requirements
1.  **Login Module:**
    *   Secure Email/Password auth.
    *   "Remember Me" functionality.
    *   Visual: Glassmorphism, Premium SCL Aesthetic.
2.  **Dashboard Module:**
    *   Responsive Card Grid.
    *   Dynamic greeting ("Welcome back, Syed").
3.  **LMS Card:**
    *   Direct deep-link to Moodle.
    *   Auto-provisioning: If user exists in SCLI but not Moodle, create them in Moodle on fly (or pre-sync).

---

## 🛠️ Step-by-Step Implementation Plan

### Phase 1: The Clean Foundation
*   [ ] **Step 1: Project Initialization**
    *   Create new directory structure `SCL-Institute/`.
    *   Initialize git repository.
*   [ ] **Step 2: Docker Infrastructure**
    *   Create `docker-compose.yml` defining MySQL, Node, and **Moodle**.
    *   Ensure networks can talk to each other (Backend <-> Moodle).
*   [ ] **Step 3: Backend Core**
    *   Setup Express server.
    *   Implement `User` model (MySQL).
    *   Implement `auth/login` endpoint.

### Phase 2: Frontend & Aesthetics
*   [ ] **Step 4: React Setup**
    *   Initialize Vite project.
    *   Install Tailwind CSS and configure "SCL Purple" theme.
*   [ ] **Step 5: Login UI**
    *   Build the "Premium" Login Page (animations, glass effect).
*   [ ] **Step 6: Dashboard UI**
    *   Build the Card Layout.
    *   Create "LMS" Card.

### Phase 3: The Integration
*   [ ] **Step 7: Moodle Setup**
    *   Launch Moodle container.
    *   Run initial install wizard (admin/admin).
    *   Enable Web Services & REST Protocol.
*   [ ] **Step 8: The Bridge**
    *   Implement SSO Script in Backend.
    *   Connect "LMS Card" click to SSO Launch.
    *   Verify seamless transition.

---

## 📝 Success Criteria
*   [ ] User can login to SCL-Institute.
*   [ ] User sees a Dashboard with an LMS Card.
*   [ ] User clicks LMS Card -> Lands on Moodle Dashboard logged in.
*   [ ] **NO** legacy data/code usage.
*   [ ] **NO** messy manual installs (Everything containerized).

---

## 🌿 Git Branching Strategy

This project follows a structured Git workflow:

- **`main` branch**: Production-ready code deployed to your server
- **`develop` branch**: Your default development branch for local work

For detailed information on how to work with branches, features, and deployments, see [GIT_WORKFLOW.md](GIT_WORKFLOW.md).

---

## 🚀 Quick Setup Commands

### Development (Your Laptop)
```bash
./scripts/start-dev.bat    # Windows: Start local development
./scripts/start-dev.sh     # Linux/Mac: Start local development
```

### Stop All Services
```bash
./scripts/stop-all.bat     # Windows
./scripts/stop-all.sh      # Linux/Mac
```

For complete setup guide, see [QUICK_START.md](QUICK_START.md) and [ENVIRONMENT_SETUP.md](ENVIRONMENT_SETUP.md).

---

*This document serves as the Request for Comments (RFC) and Implementation Guide for the SCL-Institute Rebuild.*

Commit message:

feat: restore Moodle Docker deployment and create production server setup script
- Restored Moodle containers (scli-moodle and scli-moodle-db) to docker-compose.prod.yml
- Reverted NGINX config to route to Docker Moodle container (port 8080)
- Created automated setup-production-server.sh for fresh Ubuntu 22 deployment
- Added comprehensive PRODUCTION_SETUP.md with instructions and troubleshooting
- Updated README.md with production deployment section
- All 6 services now deploy as Docker containers (no native LAMP)
- SSL certificates and .env.production required for fresh deployment

README.md, after:

# 🚀 01_START_HERE_IMPLEMENTATION.md - SCL-Institute Rebuild

**Project Name:** SCL-Institute (SCLI)
**Status:** 🚀 REBOOTED (Phase 1 Start)
**Date:** January 24, 2026

---

## 🏛️ Executive Summary

We are rebuilding the system from the ground up as **"SCL-Institute"**. The goal is to provide a clean, "from scratch" implementation that retains the premium **SCL Look & Feel** but simplifies the architecture into a streamlined user flow.

**The Vision:**
1.  **Unified Entry Point:** A beautiful Login Module.
2.  **Central Dashboard:** A "Card" based interface after login.
3.  **LMS Integration:** A dedicated card that seamless logs the user into a **fresh Moodle instance**.

---

## 🏗️ Architecture Design

We are adopting a strict "Clean Slate" approach. We will not link to the old SCL database or old Moodle data.

### 1. Technology Stack
*   **Frontend:** React 18 + Vite + Tailwind CSS (Preserving "SCL Purple" Aesthetic).
*   **Backend:** Node.js + Express (Authentication & User Management).
*   **Database:** MySQL 8.0 (Users, Tokens, App Data).
*   **LMS:** Moodle 4.x (Fresh Docker Install).
*   **Containerization:** Docker Compose (Orchestrating all 4 services).

### 2. User Flow
1.  **User Visits:** `https://scl-institute.com` (Frontend)
2.  **Action:** LOGS IN via SCL-Institute Login Page.
3.  **System:** Authenticates user via Node.js Backend.
4.  **Landing:** User lands on **SCL-Institute Dashboard**.
    *   *Visual:* Grid of Cards (e.g., "LMS", "Profile", "Settings").
5.  **Action:** User clicks "LMS" Card.
6.  **System:**
    *   Frontend requests SSO Token from Backend.
    *   Backend talks to Moodle (Fresh Instance).
    *   Moodle validates and logs user in.
    *   User is redirected to Moodle Dashboard without 2nd login.

---

## 📋 System Requirements (From Scratch)

### A. Environment
*   **Hypervisor:** Docker Desktop (Windows).
*   **Services:**
    1.  `scli-frontend` (React)
    2.  `scli-backend` (Node API)
    3.  `scli-mysql` (Database)
    4.  `scli-moodle` (LMS - Fresh Install)
    5.  `scli-phpmyadmin` (DB Management)

### B. Functional Requirements
1.  **Login Module:**
    *   Secure Email/Password auth.
    *   "Remember Me" functionality.
    *   Visual: Glassmorphism, Premium SCL Aesthetic.
2.  **Dashboard Module:**
    *   Responsive Card Grid.
    *   Dynamic greeting ("Welcome back, Syed").
3.  **LMS Card:**
    *   Direct deep-link to Moodle.
    *   Auto-provisioning: If user exists in SCLI but not Moodle, create them in Moodle on fly (or pre-sync).

---

## 🛠️ Step-by-Step Implementation Plan

### Phase 1: The Clean Foundation
*   [ ] **Step 1: Project Initialization**
    *   Create new directory structure `SCL-Institute/`.
    *   Initialize git repository.
*   [ ] **Step 2: Docker Infrastructure**
    *   Create `docker-compose.yml` defining MySQL, Node, and **Moodle**.
    *   Ensure networks can talk to each other (Backend <-> Moodle).
*   [ ] **Step 3: Backend Core**
    *   Setup Express server.
    *   Implement `User` model (MySQL).
    *   Implement `auth/login` endpoint.

### Phase 2: Frontend & Aesthetics
*   [ ] **Step 4: React Setup**
    *   Initialize Vite project.
    *   Install Tailwind CSS and configure "SCL Purple" theme.
*   [ ] **Step 5: Login UI**
    *   Build the "Premium" Login Page (animations, glass effect).
*   [ ] **Step 6: Dashboard UI**
    *   Build the Card Layout.
    *   Create "LMS" Card.

### Phase 3: The Integration
*   [ ] **Step 7: Moodle Setup**
    *   Launch Moodle container.
    *   Run initial install wizard (admin/admin).
    *   Enable Web Services & REST Protocol.
*   [ ] **Step 8: The Bridge**
    *   Implement SSO Script in Backend.
    *   Connect "LMS Card" click to SSO Launch.
    *   Verify seamless transition.

---

## 📝 Success Criteria
*   [ ] User can login to SCL-Institute.
*   [ ] User sees a Dashboard with an LMS Card.
*   [ ] User clicks LMS Card -> Lands on Moodle Dashboard logged in.
*   [ ] **NO** legacy data/code usage.
*   [ ] **NO** messy manual installs (Everything containerized).

---

## 🌿 Git Branching Strategy

This project follows a structured Git workflow:

- **`main` branch**: Production-ready code deployed to your server
- **`develop` branch**: Your default development branch for local work

For detailed information on how to work with branches, features, and deployments, see [GIT_WORKFLOW.md](GIT_WORKFLOW.md).

---

## 🚀 Quick Setup Commands

### Development (Your Laptop)
```bash
./scripts/start-dev.bat    # Windows: Start local development
./scripts/start-dev.sh     # Linux/Mac: Start local development
```

### Stop All Services
```bash
./scripts/stop-all.bat     # Windows
./scripts/stop-all.sh      # Linux/Mac
```

For complete setup guide, see [QUICK_START.md](QUICK_START.md) and [ENVIRONMENT_SETUP.md](ENVIRONMENT_SETUP.md).

## 🌐 Production Deployment

For deploying to a production server, see [PRODUCTION_SETUP.md](PRODUCTION_SETUP.md).

**Quick Summary:**
1. Fresh Ubuntu 22.04 LTS server
2. Run `setup-production-server.sh` as root
3. All 6 Docker containers deployed automatically
4. Fully configured HTTPS and SSL
5. Ready for use

---

*This document serves as the Request for Comments (RFC) and Implementation Guide for the SCL-Institute Rebuild.*
